---
title: Study of R
categories:
 - Notes
tags:
- R
---

I think this notes may help me to get better understanding of R.

# help

You can type these codes to help you to understand the function which R is provided


```r
# get the help of function
help(functionName)
# get the args of one function
args(functionName)
# get example of one function
example(functionName)

# Or you can use opeaator '?' which is same as help
?functionname
```

Or perhaps you don't know the exactly name of function, you can use these:

```r
help.search(partOfFunctionName)
# Or
??partOfFunctionName
```

If you want some details, or your computer dosen't have the document of R. you can type this code:

```r
RSiteSearch(functionName)
```
# R

In fact, some constant values or functions you can type the name at will:

```r
pi
[1] 3.141593
sqrt(2)
[1] 1.414214
```
>When you enter expressions like that, R evaluates the expression and then implicitly calls the print function
By the way, you can also write down the code `print()` to print the value of variable. 

## Vector

In your task, maybe you will find your sometime, data has miss one or two value,
you can use `NA` to replace it. if you do this. be sure to use `na.rm=TRUE`
For example, When you use the function to calculate the average

```r
x <- c(0,1,1,2,3,NA)
mean(x, na.rm=TRUE)
```

## Sequence

To create the simple sequence n, n+1, n+2, ..., m.
You can use two different way to initialize a sequence:

* use operator `:` with two numbers. the first one means the begin of the sequence, the last one means the end of this sequence.
* or you can type all this function name `seq` to build a sequence. using from as the begin, and to as the end of the sequence.  

The sequence default the step is 1, if you want to change special step, use `by` to change it. 

```r
1:5
# [1] 1 2 3 4 5
seq(from=1, to=5, by=2)
# [1] 1 3 5
```

In some time you don't know the exactly the step which you need. you can use `length.out = #step#` #step# you can replace it as the count Which you want get in Vector or Sequence. The R will calculate the step.

```r
seq(from=0, to=20, length.out=5)
# [1] 0 5 10 15 20
```

If you want to create repeated sequence, you __must__ use `req` to initialize

```r
rep(1, times=5)
# [1] 1 1 1 1 1
```

## Compare

The R can compare between numbers, squence or vector. even number and squence.
In that case the only number will compare the value from vector, one by one. 
and the operator is same as C. using the `<`, `>`, `>=`, `<=`, `==`, `!=`.
for example:

```r
x <- c(3,4,4)
v <- 2
x == v
# [1] FALSE FALSE FALSE
```

## Get the value

The way to get value from Vector or Squence is same as C.

```r
x <- seq(from=1, to=5)
x[1]
# [1] 1
```

## Selecting Vector Elements

It's same as python.

```r
fib <- c(0,1,1,2,3,5,8,13,21,34)
fib[c(1,2,4,8)]
# [1] 0 1 2 13
```

__Be care__ How to deal with __[-1]__ R is different from Python.
Cheak the different:

```r
fib[1:3]
# [1] 0 1 1
fib[-(1:3)] 
# [1] 2 3 5 8 13 21 34
```

In python -index, means that is a value, which The penultimate index of  Vector or Sequence.
But In R, -index, means the index in Vector or Sequence will be ignored.
